Descriptive statistics, 
including measures of central tendency, dispersion and position; elements of probability; confidence intervals; 
hypothesis tests; two-population comparisons; correlation and regression; goodness of fit; analysis of variance;
applications in various fields.
Introduction using a computer software package to complete both descriptive and inferential statistics problems.

Upon completion of Math 40, a student should be able to:
build a frequency distribution for, and make a histogram of, quantitative data.
determine whether or not there is significant correlation for a bivariate data set, and if so, fit a linear 
  regression equation and use it for data prediction.
perform the steps for a hypothesis test about a single population parameter and interpret the result.
solve an application problem using the central limit theorem.
use a computer program to make a graph of categorical data.
4units=4x3 hours out of class per week.

Textbook: Open Educational Resource through LibreText.
Online homework System: Open Educational Resource through My Open Math.
Calculator: TI-83 or 84. (A calculator emulator will not be allowed on exams.)
Computer Software: We will need to use Google Sheets. Your student email (gmail) give you access to these.
A way to scan handwritten documents to pdfs for submission.
Cellphone with scanning software (directions given on first day of class)
A printer/scanner with the ability to scan multiple pages into a single pdf file.
A computer/laptop for online work.
A reliable internet connection.
A Webcam and Microphone.

Grade Percentage Breakdown
Homework:15%     Participation:10%       Lab:15%   ModuleTests:40%    Final:20%
***drop with NGR, drop with W?

***discussions--chapter1--subcribe, account setting--notification--email/push notification for account or for
  each class--select from drop down--suggested:announcement, submission comment, Discussions--3 options, appointment
  availbility.  my files: delete conversation attachments if needed/over limit.

meet with Jennie Graham:   6/11 9:40~50am https://us06web.zoom.us/j/99329310224?pwd=VGJVdlVmVjVVNWYrSTNPZTJSNTgwZz09
One thing I like about working with math:The way mathematical models describe natural phenomena,like discovering hidden 
  patterns of reality and helping solve similar/relevent issues.
One thing I don’t particularly care for:Sometimes, the abstract nature of math can be challenging. When dealing with complex 
 expressions or diving into advanced topics, it can feel like navigating a maze.

Hi mates!

My name is Hang Xu. 
1) I see my future career as Wi-Fi testing engineer utilizing AI/ML technology. 

2) One thing I like about working with math:The way mathematical models describe natural phenomena,like discovering hidden 
     patterns of reality and helping solve similar/relevent issues.
   One thing I don’t particularly care for:Sometimes, the abstract nature of math can be challenging. When dealing with complex 
     expressions or diving into advanced topics, it can feel like navigating a maze.
3) 

4) I like traveling, hiking and cooking at my spare time:



population gives parameter and sample gives statistic, grep--population/white--sample, measurements based on census data are called
parameters, time and expenses--national census 10yrs/once
