Variables and Types of Data:
 Qualitative: non-numeric, categorical, think quality. hair color, gender, kind of car driven
Quantitative: numeric, think quantity.
  Discrete: # of eggs laid, courses taken, usually integers.
  Continuous: on a continuous measurable scale, speed, length, time, volume, usually partial of int.


 levels of measurement to categorize data four main types:
   Nominal Scale:qulitative, non-numeric, kind, mutual-exclusive, no natural order, Gender, eye color, blood type
   Ordinal Scale:qulitative, non-numeric, kind, natural order, no precise diff btwn values, satisfaction, socioeconomic status
   Interval Scale:quantitative, numeric, natural order, Equal intervals, no true zero point. temperature, IQ, SAT score
   Ratio scale:quantitative, numeric, natural order, Equal intervals, true zero point. height, weight, age, time, salary

Data Collection and Sampling Techniques
unbiased sampling:
 simple random(random row and random column for 6 times), systematic(number the members, pick k-th), stratified(each row as group/strata then random on each), 
 cluster(samilar on first step as stratified then choose the whole group--whole row), convenience(survey, go to mall ask questions), volunteer(TV ad-biased).

Sampling Error is the difference between the results obtained from a sample and the results obtained from the population from which the sample was selected.
Non-sampling Error occurs when the data are obtained erroneously or the sample is biased, i.e., nonrepresentative. calibration and/or human error.

Descriptive statistics summarize and describe data within a sample. e.g. Creating a histogram to visualize the distribution of heights in a sample of individuals.
Inferential statistics use information from a sample to make inferences about a larger population.They allow us to generalize findings beyond the observed data.
  e.g. Estimating the population mean based on a sample mean and confidence interval.

Outlier is a data point that significantly differs from other observations in a dataset.

Types of Sampling of Data:
Observational Study: natural setting/environ, unethical/dangerous, variable non-manipulation, cause-and-effect situation cannot be shown(other factors), 
  expensive&time consuming, confounding variable noe seperated.
Experimental Study: researcher manipulate independent/explanatory variable resulting-->dependent/outcome variable 
  involve treatment group(give instruction or trial drug) and control group(no drug or instruction), able to select objects and assign to specific group.
  Hawthorne effect, confound variable, unnatural setting(lab, classroom)

misleading conclution:
sample: where data come from, large sample prefered, random and representative, data collector--you or other reported, the way questions are phrased can often 
  influence how they are answered. Correlation does not imply causation. Detached Statistics: A claim in which no comparison is made, non-rounded number does not 
  make it exact. e.g.Sarah sold 100% more cookies this year OR Sarah sold 2 boxes of cookies this year instead of the 1 box she sold last year.

Statistical Thinking: 
what is the data means, the goal of the study.
source of data, special interest? reliable?
sampling method: collecting biased or not? people allowed volunteer? sample representative?
Analyze: Graph the Data, Explore the Data(Outliers? Missing data? Distribution?), Apply Statistical Methods
Conclude: Statistical Significance(Do the results have statistical significance? Do the results have practical significance?). • e.g. If a new drug leads to a significant 
  reduction in blood pressure compared to a placebo, we say the effect is statistically significant. A small difference in click-through rates for two website designs 
  might be statistically significant, but practically insignificant if it doesn’t impact user behavior significantly


Height,weight,time quantitative continuous; height, weight, income,age, time, salary ratio. temp interval
